New materials are updated (#4)
OSGConnect/tutorial-error101: README.md

In this lesson, we'll learn how to troubleshoot jobs that never start or fail in unexpected ways. 

# Troubleshooting techniques

> We will look into 4 criterias. The criteria's are listed below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will look into 4 criterias. The criteria are listed below
```

 - [Job is held](#job-is-held)
 - [Job completed but was unsuccessful](#job-completed-but-was-unsuccessful)

>  - [Job does not start](#Job-does-not-start)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [Job does not start](#job-does-not-start)
```

 - [Job is running longer than expected](#job-is-running-longer-than-expected)

## Job is held
HTCondor puts your jobs on hold when something goes wrong in the process of managing your jobs. HTCondor provides a ``Hold Reason`` that explains what went wrong. To see what went wrong you can use the command `condor_q -hold`. A typical hold message may look like the following

	$ condor_q -hold
	ap40.uw.osg-htc.org : <128.105.68.62:9618?... @ 08/01/24 15:01:50
 	ID         OWNER          HELD_SINCE  HOLD_REASON

> 	130.0       alice           8/1  14:56 Transfer input files failure at ⋯

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	130.0       alice           8/1  14:56 Transfer output files failure at ...
```

> In this particular case, a user had this in his or her HTCondor submit file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this particular case, the message indicates that HTCondor cannot transfer back output files, likely because they were never created. This hold condition can be triggered if a user has this option in their HTCondor submit file:
```

	transfer_output_files = outputfile

> However, when the job executed, it went into Held state. To see more about the error message `condor_q -hold JOB-ID` can be used. An example error message in this scenario is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, when the job executed, it went into the Held state. To learn more, `condor_q -hold JOB-ID` can be used. An example from this scenario is shown below:
```

	$ condor_q -hold JOB-ID

	Transfer output files failure at access point… while receiving files from the execution point. Details: Error from ….execute point … failed to send file(s) at apxx; failed to read from file /path: (errno 2) No such file or directory

> The reason why the file transfer failed is because `outputfile` was never created on the worker node. Remember that at the beginning we said that the user specifically requested `transfer_outputfiles = outputfile`! HTCondor could not complete this request, and so the job went into Held state instead of finishing normally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason why the file transfer failed is because `outputfile` was never created on the worker node. Remember that at the beginning we said that the user specifically requested `transfer_outputfiles = outputfile`! HTCondor could not complete this request, and so the job went into the Held state instead of finishing normally.
```

Author: Done in new commit

It's quite possible that the error was simply transient, and if we retry, the job will succeed. We can re-queue a job that is in Held state by using `condor_release`: 

> 	condor_release JOB-ID 

Reviewer: Do we want to include other common hold reasons / examples?

Author: Done

> ## Job completed but was unsuccessful

Reviewer: feels like this section should explain that a) you should always check the "error" file and b) if you add commands like those below, you can view the output in the "output" file.

> Under this case two things will be considered. First, your job has run but the code did not execute correctly or in the expected manner. Second, your job ran but it did not produce/transferred the desired output files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under this case two things will be considered. First, your job has run but the code did not execute correctly or in the expected manner. Second, your job ran but it did not produce/transfer the desired output files.
```

> For these secnarios having various `ls` or `echo` statemets that shows the contents of the directory and code's progression is helpful in diagnosing the actual issue. An example is shown here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For these scenarios having various `ls` or `echo` statements that shows the contents of the working directory and the code's progression are helpful in diagnosing the actual issue. An example is shown here:
```

	echo "Here are the files at the start of the job:"
	ls -R
	echo "Executing main command..."
	my_command	#Part of the original code
	echo "... finished. Here are the files at the end of the job:"
	ls -R

> For your commands if eanbling debugging or verbose logging is an option then do those. Moreover, [condor_chirp](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man-pages/condor_chirp.html&sa=D&source=editors&ust=1740162417565289&usg=AOvVaw1HJ8p454psoN6alPpujatn) can be a very useful tool in this regard as it sends information directly back to the Access Point. For example, the following will add a statement to your .log file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For your commands if enabling debugging or verbose logging is an option then do those. Moreover, [condor_chirp](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man-pages/condor_chirp.html&sa=D&source=editors&ust=1740162417565289&usg=AOvVaw1HJ8p454psoN6alPpujatn) can be a very useful tool in this regard as it sends information directly back to the Access Point. For example, the following will add a statement to your .log file:
```

	command1
	condor_chirp ulog "Finished executing command1"
	command2
## Job does not start

> Matchmaking cycle can take more than 5 minutes to complete and it can be longer if the server is busy. Specially, the more/more-specific resources are requested, the longer is the wait. For example if you are submitting a lot of GPU jobs, there may not be enough `GPUs` in the pool. This type of issues can be diagnosed using the `-better-analyze` flag 

Reviewer: "Matchmaking" is a little jargon-y. Can you explain a little more what is meant by that here?

> Matchmaking cycle can take more than 5 minutes to complete and it can be longer if the server is busy. Specially, the more/more-specific resources are requested, the longer is the wait. For example if you are submitting a lot of GPU jobs, there may not be enough `GPUs` in the pool. This type of issues can be diagnosed using the `-better-analyze` flag 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matchmaking cycle can take more than 5 minutes to complete and it can be longer if the server is busy. In addition, the more/more-specific resources are requested, typically the longer the wait. For example if you are submitting a lot of GPU jobs, there may be fewer GPUs (than other resources) to run your jobs. This type of issue can be diagnosed using the `-better-analyze` flag 
```

# Troubleshooting techniques
We will look into 4 criteria. The criteria are listed below

## Diagnostics with condor_q
 - [Job is held](#job-is-held)
 - [Job completed but was unsuccessful](#job-completed-but-was-unsuccessful)
 - [Job does not start](#job-does-not-start)
 - [Job is running longer than expected](#job-is-running-longer-than-expected)

## Job is held
HTCondor puts your jobs on hold when something goes wrong in the process of managing your jobs. HTCondor provides a ``Hold Reason`` that explains what went wrong. To see what went wrong you can use the command `condor_q -hold`. A typical hold message may look like the following

	$ condor_q -hold
	ap40.uw.osg-htc.org : <128.105.68.62:9618?... @ 08/01/24 15:01:50
 	ID         OWNER          HELD_SINCE  HOLD_REASON
	130.0       alice           8/1  14:56 Transfer output files failure at ⋯

In this particular case, the message indicates that HTCondor cannot transfer back output files, likely because they were never created. This hold condition can be triggered if a user has this option in their HTCondor submit file:

	transfer_output_files = outputfile

> However, when the job executed, it went into the Held state. To learn more, `condor_q -hold JOB-ID` can be used. An example from this scenario is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, when the job executed, it went into the Held state. To learn more, we can run `condor_q -hold JOB-ID` as described above and get the following message: 
```

It's quite possible that the error was simply transient, and if we retry, the job will succeed. We can re-queue a job that is in Held state by using `condor_release`: 

	condor_release JOB-ID 

### Common scenarios for job going on hold

Some of the common scenarios and example hold mesaages where the job goes on hold are described below
<ul>
<li> The executable is using more resources(memory) than requested in the job submit file. An example `hold` message for this scenario will look like:</li>
	
	Error from …: memory usage exceeded request_memory
	Job in status 2 put on hold by SYSTEM_PERIODIC_HOLD due to memory usage ...

<li> Typo(s) in the `transfer_input_files` path: If there are typos in the file path or the file does not exist in the provided path, then HTCondor will put the job on hold and will provide a hold message similar to</li>

	Transfer input files failure at access point apxx while sending files to the execution point. Details: reading from file /path: (errno 2) No such file or directory

<li> If a job ran more than the default allowed run time-HTCondor will put the job on hold providing a message like</li>

	The job exceeded allowed execute duration of 20:00:00

> <li> You have reached your disk quota and HTCondor can not write the output file to your access point. This may happen while performing [checkpointing](https://portal.osg-htc.org/documentation/htc_workloads/submitting_workloads/checkpointing-on-OSPool/) jobs or regular jobs when your disk quota is reached. The hold message will look like:</li>

Reviewer: html and markdown formatting can't mix. Because this list item is "wrapped" in HTML, the links will also need to use html syntax and not markdown.

	Transfer output files failure at access point… while receiving files from the execution point. Details: Error from ….execute point … failed to send file(s) at apxx; failed to create directory /path Disk quota exceeded
</ul>
For these cases, sometimes it is better to just remove the jobs, fix the issues and then resubmit them. In some cases (e.g. excessive memory usage) using [condor_qedit](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man-pages/condor_qedit.html) to fix the issue and releasing them might be convenient. Whenever in doubt please reach out to our [support](https://portal.osg-htc.org/documentation/support_and_training/support/getting-help-from-RCFs/) team.  

## Job completed but was unsuccessful
Under this case two things will be considered. First, your job has run but the code did not execute correctly or in the expected manner. Second, your job ran but it did not produce/transfer the desired output files.

> For these scenarios looking at the `error` and `log` files will provide more information about your job. In addition, having various `ls` or `echo` statements that shows the contents of the working directory and the code's progression are helpful in diagnosing the actual issue. An example is shown here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For these scenarios looking at the `error` and `log` files will provide more information about your job. In addition, having various `ls` or `echo` statements that shows the contents of the working directory and the code's progression are helpful in diagnosing the actual issue. An example is shown here:
```
```suggestion
For these scenarios looking at the `error` and `log` files will provide more information about your job. In addition, having various `ls` or `echo` statements that shows the contents of the working directory and the code's progression are helpful in diagnosing the actual issue. An example is shown here:
```
```suggestion
For these scenarios looking at the `error` and `log` files will provide more information about your job. In addition, having various `ls` or `echo` statements that shows the contents of the working directory and the code's progression are helpful in diagnosing the actual issue. An example is shown here:
```
```suggestion
For these scenarios looking at the `error` and `log` files will provide more information about your job. In addition, having various `ls` or `echo` statements in your code, showing the contents of the working directory and the code's progression, will be helpful in diagnosing the actual issue. An example is shown here:
```

	echo "Here are the files at the start of the job:"
	ls -R
	echo "Executing main command..."
	my_command	#Part of the original code
	echo "... finished. Here are the files at the end of the job:"
	ls -R

While using the above commands, looking at the `output` file will provide the status of your code. In addition, for your commands if enabling debugging or verbose logging is an option then do those. Moreover, [condor_chirp](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man-pages/condor_chirp.html&sa=D&source=editors&ust=1740162417565289&usg=AOvVaw1HJ8p454psoN6alPpujatn) can be a very useful tool in this regard as it sends information directly back to the Access Point. For example, the following will add a statement to your .log file:
	command1
	condor_chirp ulog "Finished executing command1"
	command2
## Job does not start

> Matchmaking cycle (the process of finding an execution point to run the submitted jobs in queue) can take more than 5 minutes to complete and it can be longer if the server is busy. In addition, the more/more-specific resources are requested, typically the longer is the wait. For example if you are submitting a lot of GPU jobs, there may be fewer `GPUs` (than other resources) to run your jobs. This type of issue can be diagnosed using the `-better-analyze` flag 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The matchmaking cycle (the process of finding an execution point to run the submitted jobs in queue) can take more than 5 minutes to complete and it can be longer if the server is busy. In addition, the more/more-specific resources are requested, typically the longer is the wait. For example if you are submitting a lot of GPU jobs, there may be fewer `GPUs` (than other resources) to run your jobs. This type of issue can be diagnosed using the `-better-analyze` flag 
```

	condor_qedit JOB_ID RequestMemory 2048

## Job is running longer than expected

To troubleshoot this issue we recommend checking your .log files and see if 
<ul>
<li>The job has been continuously running on the same slot</li>
<ul>
Debugging tools: 

> <li>[condor_tail](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man-pages/condor_tail.html)</li>- It returns the last X bytes of the job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<li>[condor_tail](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man-pages/condor_tail.html)</li>- It returns the last X bytes of the job standard output or error files.
```

> <li>[condor_ssh_to_job](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man-pages/condor_ssh_to_job.html). It allows to log in to the execution point. Point to be noted-It **does not work** on all systems. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<li>[condor_ssh_to_job](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man-pages/condor_ssh_to_job.html). It allows to log in to the execution point. Point to be noted-It **does not work on all nodes**. 
```

</ul>
<li>The job has been interrupted and restarted on another slot</li>
<ul>
Debugging tips:
<li>If it happens once or twice, adjust your expectation of the runtime.</li>
<li>If it happens many times, your job runtime may be too long for the system or [contact the support team](maito:support@osg-htc.org) expectation of the runtime.</li>
</ul> 
<li>The job is stuck on the file transfer step</li>
<ul>
Debugging tips:

> <li>Check the `.log` file for meaning errors</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<li>Check the `.log` file for meaningful errors</li>
```

	condor_qedit JOB_ID RequestMemory 2048

## Job is running longer than expected

To troubleshoot this issue we recommend checking your .log files and see if 
<ul>
<li>The job has been continuously running on the same slot</li>
<ul>
Debugging tools: 

> <li>[condor_tail](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man-pages/condor_tail.html)</li>- It returns the last X bytes of the job standard output or error files

Reviewer: same comment about nesting markdown in html formatted blocks.
